and I want to bring in someone to help
us break this down Alabama Republican
congressman mo Brooks who's a member of
the freedom caucus congressman you're an
attorney what is your advice to the
Trump administration about how to move
forward after this well the Constitution
is very very clear it gives the
president's absolute authority over this
type of issue regarding foreigners and
other countries and their admittance
into the United States of America if I
were advising Donald Trump the first
thing I would advise him to do is to
appeal these decisions the second thing
I would advise him to do is make sure he
has Gorsuch on the Supreme Court before
the Appeals get to that point and the
third thing that I would ask him to
consider and this is a little bit more
aggressive as at some point or another
the judiciary has to be put back in its
place our founding fathers created a
constitution and a form of government
that's supposed to be three equal
branches of government and to a very
large degree the judiciary has
overstepped its bounds and at some point
the executive branch is going to have to
do what is necessary to put the
judiciary back in its place where it's a
co-equal branch of government rather
than a superior branch of government
well I would guess that Judge Gorsuch
would say whether he is sitting in his
seat or not he's not in the back pocket
of the president but here we are less
than 24 hours later since the ban wasn't
put in place should Americans feel less
safe absolutely there is always a risk
when you have countries that have high
intensities of terrorism and people from
those countries company nited states
america it might be that only one in a
hundred or one in a thousand of these
people our potential terrorists are in
fact terrorists but the more you bring
in the greater the probability that
you've in fact brought in some that are
terrorists who in fact will kill
Americans on American soil and so that's
the balance that you have to try to work
your way through as you decide how many
people do I bring in from these
countries where it's impossible to vet
them to determine whether they are truly
refugees or in fact they're terrorists
in disguise as we've seen happen over
and over again in Europe well those
extra 40 days involved in this vetting
process what would it really do the
vetting that we have now
what is it missing that the additional
vetting will do to protect the United
States of America because this idea that
people are pouring in they're not
pouring in personally from my
perspective it is impossible to properly
vet these individuals who want to come
into America from those particular
countries the government's either are
non-existent or uncooperative and to the
extent their cooperative they don't have
the kind of database that we're used to
having in the United States of America
as we vet people in the United States of
America and even when we bet people
united states of america by way of
example for a classified access to
document status something that nature
the FBI makes errors and that's where
you have as much information as you're
going to be able to have is you're
trying to determine whether someone's
going to get a secret c clearance or not
when you're dealing with people from
Yemen or Somalia or Iran or what have
you you just don't have the information
with which to make a decision that you
can have confidence in all right I want
to turn to health care today the House
Budget Committee is going to be voting
and at least one Republican on the
committee freedom caucus member Dave
brat says he will vote if three other
Republicans vote no he's gonna say it's
gonna be dead Rand Paul this morning
said that's good take a listen no
conservative is for his plan and so I
think his plans dead on arrival my hope
is it never leaves the house do you
agree oh absolutely I agree with Rand
Paul we have to I mean in fairness to
Obamacare President Obama and the
Democrats who put this build together
they did an excellent job of changing
the focus of the debate the debate used
to be over whether the federal
government is going to be actively
involved in this huge welfare system
associated with Obamacare now the debate
is how much is the federal government
going to be involved and so to the
credit of President Obama in to the
Democrats who push this through they've
changed the framework of the debate but
if you believe in individual freedom and
individual liberty if you believe in
states rights then the House Republican
leadership plan quite frankly it is the
largest welfare program that Republicans
have sponsored in the history of the
Republican Party
and as such it's going to undermine the
work ethic it's going to increase taxes
and it's going to increase our deficit
which in turn is going to increase our
risk of suffering from debilitating and
solvents in bankruptcy which would wreak
havoc with a country that took over two
centuries of our ancestors to build all
right congressman thanks so much for
sharing your thoughts this morning I
appreciate you hey there I'm Chris Hayes
from MSNBC thanks for watching MSNBC on
youtube if you want to keep up to date
with the videos we're putting out you
can click Subscribe just below me or
click over on this list to see lots of
other great videos